In this symposium, we've been reminded that Jehovah cherishes and empowers those who serve him loyally.
In this concluding part of this symposium, we'll focus on single brothers and sisters.
Let's answer three questions.
First, how do we know that married and single Christians all have an honored place in the congregation?
Second, how can we show that we value and support our fellow believers who are not married?
And third, if you're single, how can you be a successful fighter for the faith?
To begin, let's briefly consider Jehovah's view of married and single Christians.
One thing we love about our God is that Jehovah is not partial.
Regardless of a person's nationality or skin color, anyone who wishes can serve him acceptably.
Jehovah's impartiality also means that he does not favor married or single Christians one over the other.
Really remaining single or getting married is a personal choice.
And nowhere does the Bible state that our value to Jehovah is linked to being either single or married.
For example, at Matthew chapter 19 and verse 12, Jesus said that some of his followers would choose to remain single on account of the kingdom.
He then went on to say, let the one who can make room for it make room for it.
Now, think about that for a moment.
If a Christian, younger or older chooses to remain single for the sake of the kingdom,
Jehovah and Jesus respect such a decision and they appreciate the good motive behind that personal choice.
Other Christians are unmarried due to circumstances in life.
For example, some faithful Christians in the congregation are too young to marry.
Others have lost a maid due to death or divorce.
The Apostle Paul maintained God's impartial view of both single and married Christians.
Like Jesus, Paul did not teach the Christians should marry or that they should remain single.
In commenting on Paul's first inspired letter to the Corinthians, the watchtower back in 2012 said this.
Really, both marriage and singleness can be described as gifts from God.
Jehovah does not view singleness as a cause for shame or grief.
Singleness may bring a Christian certain advantages.
An unmarried Christian who is not weighed down with family responsibilities may have more time and energy to devote to God's service than a married Christian.
Of course, single Christians do not view themselves as better than married Christians for this reason.
The Bible's message, Jehovah's thinking is clear, isn't it?
Married and single Christians all can have an honored place in the congregation.
Now, let's consider our second question.
How can we who are married show that we value and support fellow believers who are not married?
Please open your Bible with me to first Corinthians chapter 12 and notice verse 25.
In the context, we notice that Paul is emphasizing that in the Christian congregation, we need one another.
We depend on one another.
Just as we need all the parts of our literal body, our eyes, our hands, and our feet, all Christians single and married are valued and needed.
So how can we show that we appreciate our single brothers and sisters?
Let's read verse 25.
So that there should be no division in the body, and here's the point, but its members should have mutual concern for one another.
The study edition of the New World Translation says that this expression have mutual concern for one another could also be rendered as be anxious over one another.
Well, the lesson is clear.
Married Christians.
We show appreciation for single brothers and sisters when we show concern for their welfare, whether that's spiritually or physically.
We do not ignore them. We don't look down on them, nor do we treat them as if we have very little in common with them.
In this regard, the Apostle Paul said an example worthy of imitation.
He was keenly interested in Timothy's spiritual health and progress.
Though single, Paul saw potential in Timothy and invested in that spiritual man.
And what happened as a result?
An inexperienced young single Christian became an excellent overseer.
And when the two of them, Paul and Timothy were no longer traveling together, Paul continued to show genuine interest in Timothy's welfare.
We know that because he wrote two letters that Jehovah has preserved for our benefit in the Holy Scriptures.
Now, can you imagine how Timothy must have felt to have received a letter from his older friend Paul?
For just a moment, let's put ourselves in Timothy's sandals as we listen to just a few lines from Paul's first letter.
To Timothy, a genuine child in the faith, may you have undeserved kindness and mercy and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
A little later in the letter, Timothy would have read this.
This instruction I entrust to you, my child Timothy, in harmony with the prophecies that were made about you, that by these you may go on waging the fine warfare.
Then there was this encouragement.
Do not neglect the gift in you that was given you through a prophecy when the body of elders laid their hands on you.
Do you think those words of encouragement reassured Timothy and made him feel appreciated without a doubt?
In the same letter, Paul went on to express concern about Timothy's frequent cases of sickness.
Paul's concerned for Timothy's welfare, his spiritual and physical welfare, no doubt touched Timothy's heart and encouraged him to move forward in Jehovah's service.
And Paul's example touches our heart as well.
We may be moved to ask ourselves, is there more I can do to look out for the needs of single ones who are exerting themselves in God's service?
Do I wrongly view single ones as incomplete, inferior or lacking, or do I show them honor?
As a traveling overseer, Timothy was a success.
Paul did not look down on him.
Rather, Paul chose Timothy, a single Christian for weighty assignments and gave him the training he needed in order to succeed.
Today, I'm sure you and I can think of many practical ways that we can demonstrate our concern for the welfare of our fellow believers who are unmarried.
The August 2020 issue of the Watchtower provided this reminder in a study article, I read.
We do well to keep in mind that those some single Christians have made it a personal goal to remain unmarried.
Other Christians would like to marry, but they simply have not found the right person.
Still others may have lost their mate in death.
In any case, should those in the congregation feel the need to ask single Christians why they are not married or to offer help to find a mate?
When we reason on Jehovah's thinking as found in the Scriptures, we know the answer to that question.
We do not need to ask single ones when they are getting married, nor do we need to pair them up with other single ones if they have not requested our help.
Instead, we should look for ways to commend them for their fine example and assure them that we love and appreciate them.
In the following dramatization, please note what an elder learned about the challenges faced by single ones.
Brothers, it's hard to believe this is our last time together.
Wow, we have the pack agenda, so let's get started.
This is our last week with our circuit overseer before he leaves us for his new circuit assignment.
Rick's been a great circuit overseer, spiritually mature, experienced, and patient with us.
Tom, you thought?
Rick is single, and sadly, there were plenty times we turned that gift into a challenge, ever since his first visit.
Hello, Jeff.
Yeah, I have a minute.
Oh, that.
Longer night. My washing machine is a clunker.
I just assumed a single brother had lots of free time.
I didn't know how much he had to do on his own.
But there was a lot more I didn't understand.
Hello, bye.
Hey.
Look.
They have something there.
It sounds like a great Bible study.
I can't wait to meet her.
Thank you very much. See you then.
See you.
Thank you.
I don't know what you're waiting for.
For what?
Come on. A single circuit overseer, a pioneer sister.
You've got to be looking for a CEO wife.
Well, the teasing was so inappropriate.
And was there at every visit.
Then there were those trying to be, how should I say, helpful?
Look.
You want to meet them.
So I invite them for lunch Saturday.
Rick never asked for that help.
All it did was put him and plenty of sisters in an awkward situation.
That's what he dealt with week after week.
We all failed the times to see past the single person
to the spiritual man giving Jehovah his best.
We'll miss you.
Just maybe not as much as some of the sisters.
I didn't want to make that mistake again
with any single brother or sister.
Rick, Jeff, thank you.
I learned a lot from you.
And I hope Jehovah blesses you wherever you go.
Yes, thanks, Rayland.
Let's now consider our final point.
If you're single, you too can be powerful by faith.
But how?
A great help in building faith is by setting and reaching spiritual goals.
Of Abraham, Romans chapter 4 and verse 20 says,
because of the promise of God, he did not waver in a lack of faith.
Like Abraham, we encourage you single brothers and sisters
to frequently meditate on God's promises.
Thinking often about how Jehovah has kept every promise to us in the past,
how he's keeping his promises now, surely encourages us to remember
that he will keep every promise that he has made for our future,
doing so strengthens our faith.
Like Jesus, like Paul, like Timothy,
talk about Jehovah's promises with others
by zealously sharing in the field ministry.
Do not isolate yourself from others in the congregation
thinking that you have very little to contribute.
No, you have much to contribute as a faithful brother or sister
in the Christian congregation.
We warmly encourage you to reach out
and associate with spiritually mature ones in your congregation
whether single or married.
Like Timothy, ponder over these things.
Be absorbed in spiritual pursuits
so that your advancement may be plainly manifest to all.
Remember, you are needed and loved.
Well, what have all of us learned in this faith strengthening
and encouraging symposium?
Please open your Bible with me to Hebrews chapter 11.
Starting in verse 4, you'll notice as you scan the verses
that many familiar names of men and women of faith
are outlined for us.
There's Abel and Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Sarah,
Rahab, Gideon and David, and many more.
All of these men and women had different circumstances in life.
It's true.
But what did they all have in common?
Notice Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 34.
In the middle of the verse, it tells us
they were made powerful.
Yes, they were made powerful by faith
and the same is happening today
in every congregation of Jehovah's people earth-wide.
Young ones, older ones, men and women,
regardless of our family circumstances,
all of us are being made powerful by faith.
So dear brothers and sisters,
please be assured that we love you and appreciate you.
And may Jehovah bless your efforts
to be a successful fighter for the faith.